Add redirects, sitemaps, and limits topics (#944)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/merchants/edge-delivery-services/sitemaps.mdx

---
title: Sitemaps
description: Learn how Edge Delivery Services generates sitemaps for your storefront, how to submit them to Google Search Console, and when to involve a developer.
---

import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Edge Delivery Services automatically generates a sitemap at `/sitemap.xml` when you publish content, so no extra setup is required.

> ## What gets included automatically

Reviewer: This content seems to duplicate the content here:  https://github.com/commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront/pull/944/changes#diff-505f731ce980df808f7a5b095067d929eb205707d3758f7fa0b2ce8d6e333149

Maybe this is intentional?

Every page you publish appears in the sitemap, including marketing pages, landing pages, authored category pages, and other document-based content.

Product pages are excluded by default. If your developer has configured [AEM Commerce prerender](/setup/configuration/aem-prerender/), it publishes each product page and updates the sitemap automatically. Otherwise, ask your developer to include them.

> ## Submit your sitemap to Google Search Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Submit your sitemap to Google Search Console (optional)
```

---
title: Sitemaps
description: Learn how Edge Delivery Services generates sitemaps for your storefront, how to submit them to Google Search Console, and when to involve a developer.
---

import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Edge Delivery Services automatically generates a sitemap at `/sitemap.xml` when you publish content, so no extra setup is required.

## What gets included automatically

Every page you publish appears in the sitemap, including marketing pages, landing pages, authored category pages, and other document-based content.

> Product pages are excluded by default. If your developer has configured [AEM Commerce prerender](/setup/configuration/aem-prerender/), it adds them to the sitemap automatically. Otherwise, ask your developer to include them.

Reviewer: vague references -- 
```suggestion
Product pages are excluded by default. If your developer has configured [AEM Commerce prerender](/setup/configuration/aem-prerender/),  it publishes each product page and updates the sitemap automatically.
```

## Submit your sitemap to Google Search Console

In <Link href="https://search.google.com/search-console" text="Google Search Console" />, open the **Sitemaps** section for your property, enter your sitemap URL (typically `https://www.yoursite.com/sitemap.xml`), and choose **Submit**. Google starts crawling the submitted URLs within a few days. Check indexing status and errors in Search Console.

<Aside type="tip" title="Multiple sitemaps">

> Large catalogs or multi-language sites may have more than one sitemap file. Ask your developer to give you the complete list of sitemap URLs, then submit each one to Google Search Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Large catalogs or multi-language sites can have more than one sitemap file. Ask your developer to give you the complete list of sitemap URLs, then submit each one to Google Search Console.
```

</Aside>

## When to involve a developer

For most storefronts, the automatic sitemap is enough. Contact your developer if any of the following apply:

- Your site supports multiple languages and search engines are indexing the wrong locale.
- Your catalog has grown large enough that a single sitemap file cannot hold all product URLs. See [File and content limits](/merchants/edge-delivery-services/file-limits/) for the per-file limits.
- You need custom configuration such as `hreflang` tags for a multi-store setup.

If you restructured your URLs, set up [Redirects](/merchants/edge-delivery-services/redirects/) to preserve SEO value from the old paths.

> ## Full reference

Reviewer: These Full reference headers seem vague--full reference to what.  I don't think you need these headers.
